# Slide 4

Work through each of the following steps:

\

1.  Say: We are going to learn about the value of different digits in a
    number. This means we are going to learn how the position of digits
    tells us how much it is worth.
2.  Ask: Could you write and say what the value is of the blue counters
    as a decimal number?
3.  Check answer: The number is zero point two.
4.  Ask: Now can you write and say what the value is of the green
    counters as a decimal?
5.  Check answer: The value is zero point zero four. If the answer given
    is incorrect, move to position 5. If the answer is correct continue
    to step 6.
6.  Ask: could you please explain if 2 tenths or 4 hundredths is bigger
    and why?
7.  Check answer: The correct answer is 0.2 is bigger because when we
    divide a whole into hundredths the size of each piece is ten times
    smaller than if I divide by ten.
8.  Ask: Please could you write the number of the counters in question a
    together as a decimal and read it out loud.
9.  Check answer: The correct answer is 0.24. If the student reads the
    number incorrectly as zero point twenty-four explain that we read
    each number after the point separately to represent each place value
    so it is zero point four two. If the student answers correctly then
    give specific praise and move to step 8.
10. Ask: Can you explain how the place value chart on the right helps
    you to write decimal numbers correctly?
11. Check answer: It is a visual way to see whole numbers before the
    decimal point and decimal numbers after and helps you put the
    correct value in each column.
12. Move to position 6.
